I really uh went down on the set of
Better Call Saul. I don't have any
memories till a week later.
Bob Odenkirk has had an improbable
career.
>> I'll do anything with you that you want
that is legally allowed. Listen to what
this guy has to say.
>> Somebody's going to prison. [music]
It's just a matter of who.
>> Are you talking to my client without his
lawyer present?
>> And you are Saul Goodman. After decades
as a cult hero in the comedy world,
culminating in his 9090s HBO series Mr.
Show with Bob and David.
>> Damn it. WHERE DID YOU GET THOSE
CHOCOLATES?
>> HOW COULD YOU hide it?
>> Odenkirk made a hard turn to dramatic
acting and surprise found mainstream
success. [music]
>> I'm not super handsome, young, muscled
up, any of that.
>> We talked about his latest career swerve
into, of all things, becoming an action
hero, like in his new movie, Normal. So,
what do you think of our little town?
>> It's um charming
>> and what he learned from a real
near-death experience on the set of
Better Call Saul. People want to hear
that you saw a white light, then they
would love to hear that you watched your
whole life pass before you on a film
reel. Here's my conversation with Bob
Odenkirk.
>> Are we good to go?
>> We're good to go.
>> This is a big production. As I said to
you when we were just sitting down, it
just it just feels very um important in
a way that uh scares the [__] out of me.
But onwards. [laughter]
>> All right. I don't want you to be
scared. There's nothing to be scared of.
It's all in your head. There's nothing
bad that's going to happen.
>> Oh, there's a lot in my head. Yeah. All
the bad stuff.
>> But thank you again for being here. And
um just before I was told that we got
the green light to start, you were
telling me about a novel you just read.
Yeah.
>> And how it relates to or how it affected
your thinking maybe about something
important that happened to you. So
>> yeah. So
>> pick up where you left off. Yeah.
>> Uh almost four years ago, I had this
heart incident. Uh, one of the
tributaries to my widowmaker artery was
shut down completely by a plaque um,
plaque buildup and um, I was really uh,
out and I went to the hospital. I got
two stances. I I really uh, went down on
the set of Better Call Saul and it was
really scary especially for everyone
around me, not for me because I don't
have any memory of it. But I've talked
about it many times and people have
asked me many times how did that affect
you? And I think first people want to
hear that you saw a white light. Then
they would love to hear that you watched
your whole life pass before you on a
film reel. And [laughter]
and I kind of wish that happened to me.
That would have been cool. But that
didn't happen to me. [snorts] It was a
blank for me for a week. I I came to
essentially a week later. I came to the
next day, but I don't have any memories
till a week later. So I've tried to
answer this question to people. What how
did it impact you? and I've had a hard
time doing it because I've always felt I
don't do justice to the uh feeling of
it, the experience of it. Okay. So then
I'm reading this new this book that
novel that's called on the calculation
of volume and I'm reading this book and
the character in this book is having a
very unique experience of time and she's
relating her experience of reliving the
same day over and over and I come to
these passages and I'm like that's how I
felt. That's exactly how I felt for
weeks after having this heart attack.
And I I I could there's like a couple
passages
um in here that I marked because I I'm
like I've never been able to express
this to people.
>> Yeah. Can you read one?
>> Yeah. I I'll I'll read you a section to
show you what I mean. Um she says uh
that in this unfathomable vastness these
infantisible elements are still able to
hold themselves together. She's talking
about the world around us and and
ourselves that we manage to stay afloat
that we exist at all. That each of us
has come into being as only one of
untold possibilities. She goes on like
that and I mark that whole passage but
then later and I'll just read this one
section. I had a day to go and I went
with it. There was no plan. There was an
outline, one which I could follow,
floating gently. There was no goal, no
prey to be caught. I was not a circling
raptor, a vulture, a shark, a big cat
poised to spring. I was not on my guard.
This was something else. I was on a
journey on my way home. I thought I was
traveling on an open ticket with no
itinerary. I journeyed through the
minutia of the streets in a universe
replete with minor incidents, a host of
objects and occurrences and sensations
all crowded together in my memory.
Well, there's a few more passages, but
gosh, to to hit upon that and think this
that's what I should tell people
[laughter]
if I could memorize it, which maybe I
can. I just couldn't believe how much
these couple passages
expressed
this thing that this this way of living
that had something to do with
experiencing time. Obviously, this term
being present, but it it took no effort
and how amazing it was. It was really
a beautiful way to live in the world.
And I knew it would go away, too. this
is going to go away a little at a time
as I go forward and I have to try to
remember it. I have to try to live this
way. I just
the degree of uh
freshness to the world around me and the
amazement of that and the beauty of it
was uh something I
I got to be in. And uh so I thought that
might come up that question and since I
just happened upon this these passages I
I wanted to share them. So yeah it was
going to come up [laughter]
but something else I was interested in
about that experience is related to what
you just described the
>> the awareness that that sort of feeling
of being present was going to fade.
>> Yeah.
>> How effectively can you get that back? I
was going to finish your sentence.
Without ketamine,
[laughter]
uh, or some mindaltering drug. Um, I
think you can. I really do. Honestly,
just reading those passages made me go,
"Oh, right, right, right, right, right.
That's what's going on here. That's how
you can I can be how I can be in the
moment and live in the world. I I've ex
it's it's still
close enough to my sense of uh
I can get there. Uh I think I should
challenge myself to do it u more. Um but
uh even the burden of saying I should
challenge myself immediately starts to
ruin it [laughter]
with guilt and responsibility and uh you
know as she says in the book no um I'm
not a raptor. I'm not a I'm not ready to
spring. I'm not a jungle cat ready to
spring. I'm not.
We live in a world that is about
achievement.
You don't want to live without purpose,
but all we're about is
getting and uh
you know, it seems to me the only way to
feel of value is um becoming a
millionaire. [laughter]
So, you want to be a millionaire. What's
that? Yeah.
>> Who wants to be a millionaire?
>> Who wants to be a millionaire? Well, I
guess everybody. But
who who wants to be happy? How about
that for a TV show? [laughter]
>> Well, in a weird way, it's possible that
the path to being a millionaire is
clearer than the path to being
>> happy. It surely is. It surely is. Yeah.
And of course, most people think being a
millionaire is what makes you happy. But
just just go talk to a millionaire.
[laughter]
>> Well, you're a millionaire, I would
guess.
>> Sure.
>> Did that make you happier?
>> There's no question that the security
that you feel from not being afraid of a
health issue or um what housing whatever
you know is a great comfort and helps
you to be more uh at peace with life.
There's no question it should help you.
It It's just not as much help as you
think it should be. I mean, yes, you can
eat steak every night, I guess, but then
you get sick of steak. You know, there
there was a clip of it of you from an
interview that I saw earlier this year
that's been kicking around my head since
I saw it. and it's uh you were being
interviewed by Mike Burbiglia
>> and he asks you if there's anyone you're
jealous of [clears throat]
>> or something like that. And the way you
answer the question was by saying you're
jealous of anyone who has young kids at
home because when you had young kids at
home, you had no questions about what
your purpose was. You know, it's like
your job was to
>> Yeah.
>> take care of the kids and do dad stuff.
Um
>> Yeah. Is is it the case that you
understood that in the moment?
>> I did.
>> Or you only understood that in
retrospect?
>> No. No, I understood it in the moment. I
absolutely knew this was the best time
I'll I'll ever have in my life. No
question. I uh also I've got to add it's
not just a sense of uh
feeling valued and feeling purposeful.
Um it's entertainment. I mean, there's
nothing more entertaining than a a
little kid. So, I knew like
that this could be the best uh thing you
could do. [laughter]
And I still think that way. I wish, you
know, it's funny. I left that interview
with Mike Burbiglia and uh I remember
thinking u oh I I I didn't think about
that specific quote but I did talk think
about that section of the interview and
I thought I think they'll cut that out
because isn't that kind of depressing
that this guy who has had so much
achievement in his career that really
should be the most rewarding thing and
is
uh is missing
a chapter of his life that is gone now
that cannot come back. I mean you can be
a grandparent and sure that's great but
uh he's obviously saying the best thing
the best chapter of my life is behind me
and I know that that's kind of sad to
say and I always feel bad when I see
people who are doing well well enough to
be interviewed and talked to and they
seem kind of uh depressed. I'm always
like, "Oh, come on. Can't can't you be
happy?" You know, but um what can I say?
I was just being honest. That's how I
feel. I feel like
that's uh that that's definitely the
best to There's nothing I can do. I
can't sit down to try to write a great
movie or
learn a wonderful script or direct
something or I don't there's nothing.
Climb a mountain. There's not a freaking
thing I can do that is gonna match the
uh value that I felt um for life
uh of being a parent uh of kids between
zero and you know uh usually around 14
15 they're like they're done [laughter]
with you.
I think it would have been more
depressing if you said the the thing
that brought you the most value and
purpose in your life was being in Better
Call Saul. Imagine your imagine your
kids hearing that answer.
>> You know, it's funny. I have so many
people uh obviously there's this is the
biggest thing I did was Better Call Saul
so far. And I can't imagine doing
anything bigger than that either. But uh
I just forget that I was in this show
completely. I mean I lived so much of my
life before that and I lived it and I
achieved things that I cared about a
great deal almost to a strange extent.
When I was writing my memoir, I wrote so
much about sketch comedy and I called it
comedy comedy comedy drama because I was
worried that people would go, "Oh, this
is the Better Call Saul guy. I'm going
to read about his journey to being on
that show." And it's like, "No, I'm
going to talk about, you know, 45 50
years of caring about and writing sketch
comedy. I'm barely going to talk about
the thing that you know me from because
that was such a small part of my life.
And uh and and still when I was writing
the book, I was thinking
there's something wrong with this guy.
It's an interesting thing to you should
write anybody should write their memoir
when they get around 50. And you may see
what I saw. We're like this guy's like a
and we all are, but this guy's like a
broken toy. He's got something wrong
with him and he keeps going in this one
direction. Like I'm writing about me and
I'm like, will you give it up already?
You know, you've already been on
Saturday Night Live as a writer. Give it
up. Stop. Even after Mr. Show, I'm I'm
still doing, you know, trying to help
Tim and Eric are
being a part of all this sketch type
comedy and I just think, well, there's
nothing to say, but there's something
wrong with me, and I don't know what it
is. And it makes me go in this one
direction, you know, the idea that you
were sort of like a a broken toy that
kept pursuing sketch comedy. Yeah. Um
I'm glad you did because I've really uh
gotten a lot out of your comedy over the
years and to sort of to such an extent
that still when I watch a movie like
Normal or the Nobody films, uh I'll have
moments where I think it's weird that
Bob Odenkirk is like blowing people away
in these movies. [laughter]
>> It's very weird. What sort of cultural
itch do you think these kinds of action
movies that are about sort of like a an
unassuming middle-aged man
>> Yeah.
>> whose sort of inner hero comes out? Um
what what itch are they scratching? Why
are they proving to be so successful
right now?
>> Um well, I thought about this a lot.
I'm not sure I I'll do my best. It's
It's wish fulfillment.
It's wish for, let's say, first of all,
an evil that is so clear and obvious
that it's worthy of our anger.
Um, which these movies do, especially
the Nobody movies. There's a point in
both movies where
you trip over into uh James Bond land
and a real guy who's been established
and and who has tensions and
sensitivities and struggles that feel
very real and that's partly because of
uh it's me playing them and I'm not um
magically delicious.
[laughter]
I'm not super handsome, young, muscled
up, any any of that. You can relate to
all these things. They're very grounded
at moments. And then there comes this
point in the movie where that guy, you
are living in a movie and you can do
things that you can only do in a movie.
The same thing happens in normal.
True. But a it's normal is a little
elevated from the get-go. I would say
it's a little like inside of a snow
globe world right from the start. Uh
whereas the nobody films make make a
real attempt to to be living in the in
the world, you know. And so I think I
think we have these we live we go
through life. There are frustrations
everywhere.
There are big ones and small ones. There
are ones that have to do with our inner
lives that we simply can't sort out
easily. And you can't act on those
frustrations in a physical way. You
can't do that. We can't live in that
world. We have to be decent to each
other. Um, in a movie, you can do
[laughter] it. So, you did Breaking Bad
and Better Call Saul. And there was sort
of a an indisputable
popular success to to that stretch of
work. And prior to that, when people
would talk about Bob Odenkirk, it was
often attached to a term like, you know,
cult success or cult favorite, which of
course is a backhanded compliment for
like not really successful at all. Um,
but prior to sort of this big career
like double bump you had sort of
relatively late, did you have moments
where you thought like I don't know if
I'm going to get the success I want or I
don't know if the career is really
working? I did have uh doubts and
concerns, but they weren't about that. I
did I didn't My bigger problem was once
I was finished with Mr. show, which was
so much of what I wanted to try to
achieve in sketch comedy. Um, like what
now? Um, I got a chance to do it. I got
a chance to do it really well. I got
total freedom to do it. Incredible
support. David Cross and I couldn't be
better partners for what we did. Um,
now what? Now what do you want to do
that's going to drive you through the
next 20 years of a career? And I was
lost because I had already achieved
um in sketch comedy and with the cult
success that I had, I had achieved
everything that I was aiming at. That's
what I was aiming for.
>> Wait, but what gives your life purpose
now?
Uh uh
trying to find uh
the next thing um
to do that will give it purpose
trying to find the next thing uh that
will feel uh rewarding and impactful and
of value. But you have had the
opportunity to work with like
people that I would consider comedic
geniuses like people like Janine Goff or
Chris Elliot
>> who had success but kind of never went
gang busters. And then you've also
worked with people like uh Ben Stiller,
Adam Sandler, Jack Black who got as big
as someone in comedy could reasonably
expect to get. Do you have any
understanding of like why that person
and not that person? Like what is there
something sort of innate that leads to
massive success?
I think that um some of the people I've
known who have great talent and and and
haven't achieved what you might call a
massive success that might be on the
level of their talent. My experience of
those people is that they don't really
want it.
>> Yeah.
>> There comes a level, a point in their
journey where they see this thing and
they go, "Oh, yeah. I don't want that
much pressure. I don't want that many
people looking at me. I want this many
people. I want, you know, 15 million
people, not 800 million people." Like, I
do think there's like everybody has a
sense of this threshold. Look, when when
my kids were about eight and 10 years
old, we were on a vacation and I
remember we were in a um a supermarket
and we were getting lunch and somebody
came over to talk to me because they
knew me from Mr. show and uh this was
before Breaking Bad and I thought this
is the perfect level of success because
I can go out in the world and be myself
and if there's a person in the room who
knows who I am, I can tell you who they
are. They will have a tattoo from one of
my shows [laughter]
[gasps] that they will love me a lot and
then everyone else in the room will not
know me at all and I can just be myself.
Um, and then with Breaking Bad, then you
get into a level of
now I'm in an elevator at the mall and
everyone in this elevator
knows who I am. But the difference
between how they know me
is wildly varied. You know, one of those
people knows how I look at the world.
The person who's watched Mr. Show, they
know how I see the world. The person who
knows Better Call Saul, that that's just
not
not even close. they don't know me. They
they know this character I played that
is not me at all. And uh and and yet I
appreciate that they like that work and
that they know me and I I'm thankful and
yeah. So
uh I think when you ask about that
the question part of the question is is
there a choice? Do you get to see this
thing coming your way?
And do you get to choose I'm going to
become I'm going to [clears throat] go
ahead and be more famous and then I'm
going to live in a world where there's a
little bit of discordancy between who I
am and how I'm known. I get I get why
people go, "No, thank you. I'm going to
stay in my littleer world where when you
know me, I know how you know me and I
and that means something to me."
uh that I'm okay with. I I I don't know
if this whole chapter of our interview
is um weird. [laughter]
I think weird is good. I think weird is
good, but something I've seen you uh
mention a few times is this idea that
sketch comedy, you know, tends to be
like a younger person's game a little
bit. Uh, do you find that at you're what
63 now? Yeah. Is your relation to sketch
sketch comedy different than it used to
be?
>> Well, it is simply because I've spent
the last 15 years doing drama and action
and I've and I've had to think a lot
about those things. So, for instance, my
friend David Cross and I are working on
a project right now and it's a play. I
did Glen Gary Glenn Ross. Yeah. And
while I was doing that play, I was
thinking a lot about the mechanics of a
play because that play is perfect. That
play is a machine. It's a machine of
drama. It's a machine of laughter. It's
unbelievable.
It's tight as can be. And so just being
a part of it,
thinking [snorts] about it, I started to
see, you know, some of the, you could
say the mechanics of it and think about
how great they were and how maybe I
could try to steal some of those,
[laughter]
you know, and make something too in that
world that might have some value and
might [clears throat] work. Um, it's
similar to when I was at Saturday Night
Live for four years and I didn't help
all that much. I pitched some jokes that
Robert Smiggle would use. Occasionally I
had a sketch that would get on, but
basically I sat around listening to El
Franken and Jim Downey and Robert
Smiggle and Conan O'Brien and Jack Handy
and Bonnie and Terry Turner and I
watched these people write great
sketches and my brain went, "Oh, I see
what they did. Oh, I see what you did."
and it kind of deconstructed it and then
I used it to make Mr. Show. So David and
I are writing a play and we'll see if we
get there. But you know our our great
desire to make it is make it it's kind
of got sketch comedy in it. But it's not
a sketch. It's it's something more
hopefully. And but we want to we want to
make it a sketch because it's too fun
and sketches are over in five minutes
and they're done and you get to move on
to the next idea. Um
so I still I I I still have an instinct
for it, but I I now I do feel what I've
said is true that doing sketch comedy
when you get older is a little strange.
It's a little
>> like it's like a young person's energy
is right for it. it fits. And when you
get older, it's like what are you doing?
What are you doing being so silly? And
what are you doing being so
it becomes um I don't it loses
something.
>> So what's comedy that speaks to you now
where you are in your life?
>> Oh boy. Um
the honestly the comedy that speaks to
me most right now is a thing called On
Cinema. Um it's a pretend um
movie review show that is on uh the
internet um by my friend Tim Haidker
and it's again you know for me
sketch comedy and this is kind of a
sketch comic thing but it's drawn out
and slowed down and I think sketch
comedy I'm sorry to say It
is the most profound
expression of
human uh existence
there is
really I [snorts] don't think any Kubric
movie or Freudian analysis or
Shakespeare
or Shakespeare
says as much about
how humans operate and what is the
ultimate
uh problem with us [laughter]
as a species
than sketch comedy. And I wish it was
not true. I wish the drama, grand drama,
I wish that we were worthy of being
taken apart and and and are and and
observed in in subtle and complex ways.
But I don't think so. I think that
ultimately
there is nothing more profound uh about
people than you can say in a sketch.
They're [__] idiots.
People are sadly
limited. so limited that you can
you can define them and you can share uh
the everything that's important about
them in four minutes. [laughter]
Wait, maybe this is related. Maybe this
is related. Um right near the end of
your memoir, you write that uh you know
show business is not curing cancer and
that it's a it's a distraction.
>> Yeah. And and the way you put it is
which is inarguably key to life on
Earth. Yeah.
>> Because life on Earth is so bleak and
painful.
>> Yeah.
>> And the only and best response to that
is to look away.
>> Yeah.
Um you want me to repudiate that
statement? I wondered if you were being
sarcastic [laughter] when you wrote that
because it struck me as bleak.
>> Pretty bleak.
>> Too sad.
>> [sighs]
>> I don't know what to say, man.
Pretty much do think that's true. But I
do think that
obviously I think there's joy and reward
in
uh being alive and and and and in uh in
the ways in which we look away in
whatever way in which you find to
transform
that that um
horror. The horror the horror
In whatever way you find to transform
that
into something good,
entertaining,
beautiful,
uh comforting to another person,
helpful.
That is that's beautiful. And that's uh
the joy of of life is turning
[__] into gold.
>> [laughter]
>> comedy gold. Well, whatever gold you can
make it into, whatever kind of alchemy
you can do
>> is
I guess to me that's that's the good
part. Now, little kids and if we want to
go back to where you started.
>> Yes, that's what I was going to do.
Yeah.
>> They do that by kids do that by being
alive by by watching them be alive. you
I think you feel that that
magic that when you come to fully grasp
life um and [clears throat] uh it can be
taken away from you uh bit by bit until
it's all gone but you can reconnect with
it and uh
yeah I I don't know I mean one of the
challenges of this interview was I have
no unified field theory of myself.
Um I'm a bit of um as you can see from
my career, I kind of go in a lot of
directions and I don't have a very um
solid justification for uh the uh
the um the whole thing. I can't
characterize the whole thing and my and
the only thing I I could say is there's
a risk that there's a great risk that I
am willing to take I think because I
don't think much of myself.
Um in other [clears throat] words, let's
say I made a huge ass of myself in
trying to do action films. Well, so
what? So what?
I mean, I can still do comedy and claw
my way back. I guess
>> we should end on that note. [laughter]
>> Yeah. But I I hope I didn't make an ass
of myself. I I think that
>> the bigger question for me is
>> what do I do now? Because um
well, I guess I have I just do what I've
always done. look for the next thing uh
that that seems
uh curious, worthwhile,
surprising.
I'll I'll find a hard time beating uh
action movies. I can tell you that I
will have a hard time finding anything I
can pursue that is as far away from
where I started as as that genre of
film.
erotic art house, I guess. [laughter]
Does that still exist? I don't know. I
don't think that exists anymore.
[music]
On the interview, we talked to our guest
twice. So, two weeks later, I caught up
with Bob Odenkirk again. We got into
what he calls Manosphere comedy, and he
apologized for, in his words, being a
bummer.
>> Bob, thank you for talking to me again.
I appreciate Happy to do it, David.
Thanks for the interest. I appreciate
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, something I I was was
curious about is, you know, we we talked
a a little about um sort of the the
beginnings of of your career in the '9s
with kind of what people called the
alternative comedy scene. And and back
then,
>> I think it was pretty clear to people
what alt comedy was alternative to.
Yeah, it was it was alternative to a
kind of like slick
>> showbizzy style of comedy that was uh
sort of the dominant form of comedy at
the time. And I wonder do you think
there as far as you can tell I is there
any sort of alternative comedy now? Like
what what is the comedy that that
someone would be rebelling against right
now?
>> Um
the well this is going to sound weird.
Uh, but probably what do they call it?
The bro the like manosphere stuff.
>> Manosphere comedy was was cuz I think
we're starting to put it in the past
already, which is
great, [laughter]
but I think the manosphere comedy was
the reactionary comedy movement of the
last five years. And um, I don't think
it has a lot of depth to it. So, it's
kind of running past pretty quickly.
It's it's uh dissipating. Um but, uh it
was a powerful movement, it seems to me,
of the last 5 years. Uh what's next, I
don't know. But you're not wrong. the
what I call the alternative comedy scene
and what I came up in after working at
Saturday Night Live and you know in this
world of Janine GOP, Margaret Cho, Kathy
Griffin,
Pat Oswald, Greg Barren, uh David Cross,
uh you know um and then that became and
then Mark Maron and that kind of
infiltrated comedy slowly over about
five years and and then it it kept
proliferating
and then it became podcasts, but then it
just became all of comedy and I think
the format of podcast um really lent
itself to a lot of what we were doing
which was more uh impromptu uh genuine
personal uh sharing and uh and then now
it's everywhere. Why do you not find the
what we're going to call manosphere
comedy to be particularly interesting or
funny?
>> Oh, well, um, it's definitely about
lowhanging fruit big time. It's like
literally on the ground. It's fruit
that's on the ground rotting.
Pick that [__] up and eat it. Throw
[clears throat] it at people. I I don't
have a lot of opinions on those guys.
It's more of a um
it's a movement that I I'm happy to see
transforming into something else and
disappearing or dissipating, you could
say.
>> Why do you think it's dissipating?
That's that's not necessarily the sense
I get. Yeah.
>> Cuz there's a It's cuz it's a dead end.
It's just going to be boring after a
while. It's like what? Let's Let's use
the stage to be as crude as we can be
and as clumsy and offish as we can be.
And that's kind of funny always. That's
funny to hear that voice. I think it's
funny to hear that voice, but not from
everybody. I think anything you do on a
stage is a performance. That sounds
obvious, but in other words, if you want
to say something honest,
then you should get off a comedy stage.
If you know a lot of com comedians get
credited for being honest or uh or they
get lambbasted for the things they say
in their act and and are asked to
explain that or justify it or pillaried
for it. And the bottom line to me is if
you're on that comedy stage that's a
show. You are not you. You are
pretending to be a person named you.
Everything you say is of of construct.
Everything. If you don't like that and
you want to tell an audience something
genuine,
earnest and honest, then get off that
stage cuz that stage is only
a show. It is not real and it is not
genuine and it is not direct no matter
how much you act like it is. And so I
just I just think we h we have to I I
wish everyone saw it that way. Then if
you if you know that if you know that
when you watch anyone do a play or um
any kind of performance then you then
you can safely watch almost anything and
talk about it afterwards and let it um
whatever that does for you. Whether it's
uh cathartic and lets that voice out of
your head or whether you can point to
that voice now and argue about it.
whatever that is, it can offer it can
have a lot of benefits. But the problem
we got into there was
comedians uh and maybe the alt comedy
scene led us to it with a degree of, you
know, self-revelation that was being
done. A sense that whatever said on that
stage is incredibly genuine and uh a
direct uh look thing is the internet has
hurt us. I'm going to ramble here for a
second. Yeah, keep keep going. One of
the reasons the internet has hurt is you
can tape somebody at 2 a.m. in a comedy
club and put them on TV and you're
watching them at 10:00 a.m. at your
breakfast table.
>> Yeah,
>> that's not right. Cuz that thing was
said at 2 a.m. in the, you know, in New
York with a bunch of drunk, rowdy people
after you talked for 45 minutes already.
So, whatever.
Did I help you clarify anything?
>> But I think the um the [snorts]
distinction you're making uh about sort
of if if a comedian or performer is
saying something in in sort of a
performance context that should change
how we uh receive the thing they're
saying. Presumably that applies to uh
podcasts also, right? So like a a Joe
Rogan or or an Andrew Schultz. But but
see I'm I'm not sure it applies to that
but why not like those are those are
performance podcast at some point you
have to give people a place to speak
honestly and directly like you and I are
doing right here you know this is not uh
me doing a character and
I I don't I I think it I don't know I I
I don't know how to delineate the line,
but there has to be a line. This is
something I feel strongly about and um
I'm never going to get everyone to
agree. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Know, it's I I'm even trying to
understand exactly like how those
distinctions make a difference. like you
know I I don't know what say I'm just
going to pick a comedian who I think uh
thinks of of what he does as expressing
honesty and truth is you know if you
talk to someone like a if you were to
ask someone like a Dave Chappelle are
are you talking honestly to your
audience I think he would say well yeah
that that's what I do and that's what
comedians do not you don't think he
would
>> I don't no I think he'd say I'm
performing
>> I really do I mean we should ask him but
>> you know my friend Dave David Cross gets
on stage and he says crazy stuff
and he doesn't believe everything he
says. He just knows it's a point of view
that is funny to express and that to
some extent people need to hear or be
surprised by to get some perspective on
their own point of view. And uh yeah, so
I I just I I I'm just thinking everybody
has to understand what that line is. it
got blurred [snorts]
uh in a way that I think was very
damaging to what we can do as artists.
We we need to be able to do and say
crazy [__] Well, but it's also
interesting because I I think you're
saying that sort of the flip side or
sort of one of the negative
repercussions of the legacy of the
alternative comedy was that its emphasis
on authenticity or seeming authenticity
led people to almost give too much
credence to what comedians were saying
in a way that led to this line blurring
and and led to some uh
>> sort of like sensoriousness in a way
It's damaging to comedy. That's
interesting. [snorts]
>> But and I'm also saying that it goes two
ways. It's the audience has to chill out
and and watch it as a performance, but
the performer, if they really have
something to say, should not be doing it
there or should not. It's not that they
shouldn't do it there. It's that if they
really want people to understand it
directly, they should get off that
comedy stage and and say it somewhere
else where it's me talking genuinely me
and not for laughs, not for the sake of
laughs, you know. Can I I there's
there's sort of like a holistic
observation uh I want to make about the
conversation so far. And it's one that
kind of before uh the camera started uh
rolling or before we hit record, you
yourself actually kind of alluded to. I
think you said, you know, sorry if I was
being negative or something in
[clears throat] earlier, but um you
know, if I sort of thinking back to what
we talked about previously, you know,
you talked about how uh you know, sort
of the the best times uh in your life
were when your kids were little.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, those times are over. The the
uh you know, the the the art form you
love the most, sketch comedy, that's a
young man's game. That's over. uh um you
know the the uh I I asked you sort of
like a life philosophy question and you
you sort of like ah you know it's all
kind of a farce uh [laughter]
and now you know it's I know maybe
middle age is a is a time of sort of uh
a certain degree of like resignation or
or uh acceptance. Yeah. But are is there
anything that you're you know that that
in in your life or work now that you
think like uniquely well this this is
great or or or uh you know I'm looking
forward to this thing that might come or
is it kind of just like a managed
decline. Uh [laughter]
[gasps]
god I'm sorry to be a bummer. I I feel
like it's real.
>> Yeah. Um um h I have a I have a new
avenue opened up in front of me with a
dramatic acting. Um, this was something
that I moved into slowly, starting
[snorts] with uh barely doing some of it
in Breaking Bad and then numerous other
projects and then Better Call Saul was
like this big, you know, jump off a
cliff and then
>> [clears throat]
>> um you could argue that action film
making is um conceptualizing that
dramatic intensity
uh sometimes to a pretty humorous this
extent like but I and then Glen Gary
Glenn Ross was a really exciting uh
discovery and challenge and I feel like
I've found a new avenue here to work in
that I'm excited by that is something
that um
at least attempts to uh address life in
a more sensitive and way with some
deeper resonance than sketch comedy can
do. But yeah, I if if you want to hear
something positive,
here's my positive. If we got to keep
trying
in the face of what I consider the
limitations of being a person, which are
strict and and [snorts]
seem immutable and uh
there's no way around. Uh so what? We
got to keep trying. Um, I don't know
what the future is if we don't hope to
try to be uh better than we are right
now. And
so, yeah. So, I I do have um I do have
some [laughter]
I do have some wind beneath my wings.
>> All right. Good. Good. A little bit.
Just a draft. [laughter]
There's a breeze beneath my wings.
>> [laughter]
>> Um, you know, but you you just uh uh
alluded to uh with Glen Gary, Glenn
Ross, and maybe with some other work uh
doing doing stuff that has some more uh
resonance than the silly stuff. But, you
know, when we spoke before, you said you
you thought that like sketch comedy was
the most the the the best v vessel for
>> I know, David, and I and and I've I've
thought about what I've said a lot and I
think it's true.
>> And I'm sorry to say that. I still think
it's true.
>> But within that, we got to keep trying.
I I'm not giving up. Is all I'm saying
is I'm not giving up. But I'm afraid to
say
uh you know look
my hope lies in um some kind of uh
I'm
evolutionary growth for the human
creature. Uh but without that or until
that happens and I don't know how that
happens, we all have to um
take some
we we all need more vaccines [laughter]
to change our DNA. Well, who thinks
that's a bad thing? Have you met a human
being? Whatever it takes to change our
DNA or RNA or whatever, any NA, let's
start changing it cuz it doesn't work
the way it is. [laughter]
That's a good thing.
Everybody get more vaccines. If that's
what they do, if they change our DNA or
our RNA or however those two are
associated, let's take lots of them and
make this creature a better creature
because uh where we're at, I I do stand
by what I said. I think a comedy in the
end,
all the philosophy in the world, all the
theories in the world, all the hope in
the world, all the grand uh pronounce,
>> the greatest poets to ever live,
>> all the great poetry,
existential, you know, thinking,
>> Franklin's voice.
>> Yeah. all of Abraham Lincoln's speeches
and
uh it all boils down to uh uh uh
Shakespeare's uh
uh sound and fury, you know, uh
signifying nothing.
>> And you might as well laugh at it. I
mean, I do think in the end that's what
we're going to have to do until until we
change. Wait, Bob, if if what you're
saying is true and sketch comedy is best
able to encapsulate the human condition.
Yeah. What is what is the most profound
sketch you've ever seen?
>> Talk show at sea. It's a it's a Jerry
Springer show. We did it on Mr. Show
[snorts] and they're on a lifeboat and
they're dying. They have no food or
water and they're still arguing about
who is in love with [clears throat] who
and who got who pregnant and um
that's it. That that to me that that
sketch
that's humanity. You're dying. You are
going to die. You we have no fresh
water. We have no food. And they're uh
going he cheated with her.
>> [laughter]
>> I love him and [snorts]
it's really really awesome and it it to
me I I don't know what else to say.
That's that's the world that I see. You
know, I really enjoyed speaking with you
and I I appreciate you taking all the
time and and I hope that the uh sort of
pitiful little fart-like draft beneath
your wings is able to carry you far into
the future.
>> It will. Don't forget I also have, you
know, [music] my kids are so wonderful
and so, you know, there's lots to look
forward [music] to. I I uh Yeah, there's
lots to look forward to.
>> I'm Lula [music] Garcia Navaro
>> and I'm David Maresy
>> and we're the hosts of the interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life. Subscribe to our YouTube channel
so you'll never miss an episode.